When compared to other gynecological cancers, cervical cancer (CC) is considered to be a lethal and second primary reason for women fatality in third-world countries. If diagnosed in its initial phases, it is treatable. In that regard, the preliminary goal of this project is to establish an acceptable classifier and computer models for identifying CC. A CC dataset is composed of four class features, such as biopsy, cytology, hinselmann, and schiller, and it has been splitted into four groups based on desired features. The dataset was generated during the data preparation step for improved analytical results in subsequent analyses. Then, using a statistical and EDA technique, we discovered hidden insights in the dataset. To create a machine learning model, many supervised machine learning techniques are trained to the dataset in order to determine the most effective predictor. The efficacy of all classification techniques is then compared using accuracy, precision, recall, sensitivity, f-measure, AUROC, and kappa statistics. It has been identified that RF gained the best performance on behalf of biopsy with 94.57% accuracy. Besides, XGB gained the highest performance regarding cytology, hinselmann, and schiller with 98.06%, 96.51%, and 94.57% accuracy respectively. Then, we found the feature importance score by the best performing classifier to rank and show the feature importance for the target feature. Overall, the findings of the study specifies that the proposed model is highly potential to detect CC in early stage.
